The Joe Rogan experience.
Um,
one of the things that you said that you disagreed with Bernie on was lobbyists.
Oh yeah.
Yeah. Well,
w I disagree with his notion that everything is attributable to some kind of
corporate greed and therefore lobbyists.
It's just not the source of our problems.
It's it contributes to it in some ways, for sure. I mean, these are not,
these are selfish actors. They, they, they have a role, right.
They're advocating for a specific thing. Um,
but I think politicians like to point to them is like the, the, the,
the Nia, the boogeyman,
it's just blame them for everything that I have. Not,
that is not been my experience, that it hasn't,
it has not been my experience that these lobbyists have any kind of excessive
control over politicians. I just don't see that. Okay. They, you know, they,
the corporate PAC and give you $5,000, that's it? I mean, this isn't, this,
isn't not in no way, shape or form. Can they buy anybody off? Um,
it's also a very transparent form of doing things.
There's this other talking point that it's all dark money. That's just not true.
A corporate PAC is a group of people who worked for a corporation.
They pulled their money together. They can't use company profits, just be clear,
it's this personal money.
And they have limits on what they can donate to that own pack.
And then they use that to advocate for whatever's important to that business.
And I tell people, where do you work? I'll ask you where,
what industry are you in? And they'll give me whatever industry let's say.
You definitely have a APAC lobbying for you on Capitol hill. All right.
And they'll, and they'll just point out bills. They'll say, listen,
this is problematic in this one, this would hurt our workers.
This would do this and put us out of business. Like, don't do that. It's it? Um,
you know, and so the, yeah, there's selfish actors don't get me wrong.
Like there, this is advocating for their thing, but that's also our.
Democracy. Individuals can donate more.
Now. So an individual cap is $2,800 to, up to a campaign.
And then a couple like you and your wife would, can double that. Okay. So.
The same as.
A pack.
Basically the same, it's only $5,000 ish. That's the maximum.
That is the maximum, but.
There's also influence that comes with that. On top of financial,
there's also influenced in terms of just cronyism and people,
reciprocating getting along with each other and working, you know,
establishing long-term relationships where they agree on things and they make
deals and they make deals that might not necessarily be in the best interest of
people like deals in terms of like what businesses get subsidies,
what businesses don't get subsidies, what things get negotiated, what dealt,
what, like, here's the perfect.
Examples.
So I think we should have a less powerful government that can't be bought off
like that. Yeah. You know, you won't give her if you want government,
because cronyism certainly happens. Right. And they'll say, listen, like those,
you know, and who can, who can lobby as the bigger, the bigger company.
So there's, there's some agreement here, but it's,
I think that there's somewhat misunderstanding of what's really happening.
So yeah. A big business can,
can lobby and then the last for more regulation. So, and,
and then who that really hurt. It hurts their smaller competitors.
So the answer is actually who's at fault here.
It's the fact that government's trying to accessibly regulate so much and it,
and it creates, it creates a situation where there's no longer competition.
Okay. Then that's a, that's a real problem now. Um, you know,
that excessive influence though, again, it's,
it's not something I've seen because there's a lot of competition for influence.
Anybody can come to your office and they all, they all disagree, right?
There's all these different interests that,
that actually compete with one another and,
and they represent different interests. So it's, it's not,
it's not self evident to me that that influences is certainly not bought. And,
uh, and, and, and I, I don't, I don't necessarily believe it's excessive either.
It's just not what I've seen. Maybe they don't,
maybe they just don't come to me. Well.
When I think it was Northwestern university did a study recently where they
were,
they showed the public support for policies and public
support for, for,
for bills and how low the public support is in comparison
to things that get passed and how, when the public, what it was,
things that the public absolutely wanted,
like across the board had something in the range of a 30% chance of getting
passed through.
Whereas there's many things that the public absolutely did not want across the
board also had a 30% chance of getting through.
And they were talking about the various influences that may lead to these
policies getting passed. Now, the argument is that you're, you're,
you're electing representatives,
those representatives don't do you justice and pass bills and, and,
and enact policies that would help your community and help you.
Then you elect them out of office, but the damage gets done while they're there.
And the idea is that these people would then go on from there,
once they've established that influence.
And once they've helped these people get jobs in the corporate sector,
get jobs that represent what they've done for those
corporations while they were representative supposedly of the people.
Yeah. I think that's, uh,
you're gonna have to really dig into like what issue they're talking about,
what issues not supported by the public. I mean, uh, that's, uh,
I you'd have to unpack those statistics, I think,
to really understand what's happening there. The,
but I Al I think that's too cynical of a way to look at politicians.
I just don't,
I don't feel that way about my colleagues on the left or the right. Well,
how long have you been a Congressman seven months? So I just, in my mind, like.
Nine months in, they start coming to, you may.
Maybe know we meet with them. It's just like, they just,
they don't have this influence, you know, they're not, I mean, listen to, they,
they present one, they one,
they generally meet with the lobbyists that they already agree with you. Um,
and, and they're generally bringing up very minute things that are,
that you just would never know about if they didn't bring that to you.
There's some bills that get passed like that. Don't like, here's one, right?
Medicaid,
Medicaid spends billions of dollars on drugs for the elderly and people that
can't afford them billions of dollars. But by law,
the government's not allowed to negotiate the price of those drugs.
Okay. So in the price negotiations, how did that happen? Well, it,
it, how did it happen? It, well, it never, it was never a thing to begin with.
So the,
there's an argument to me that the government should be able to negotiate
prices, right? The question is, what is the price?
And the other thing you have to point out is there's already a strong force
against the pharmaceutical industry, which is the insurance companies,
because they have an interest in making sure that price is as low as possible.
They're fighting all the time against the pharmaceutical companies in the
healthcare industry. All of these groups are often pitted against each other.
And then as politicians, we kind of look at all of them and we say, all right,
what are your arguments? What are your arguments? Um,
is what you're saying really makes sense.
And then we have to make those decisions based on the overall good,
but you're going to everybody off when you do that. Like, that's,
especially with healthcare, because all of these,
a lot of these groups are pitted against each other.
So you've got insurance already pitted against pharmacy. Um,
and then it becomes a pretty good question. Like,
what is government's role there? Cause I've,
I've when I first looked at this problem, I said, yeah, yeah, just negotiate.
Well, that makes sense. Um, I learned a lot more. I learned a lot more and,
and it's not because I met with any lobbyists. It has nothing to do with that.
It's because I meet with healthcare professionals and experts who know this
issue really well and economist who,
and it's very far from self-evident that this would work.
And it's far from self-evident, that would be beneficial, uh, at all,
and actually make a difference. You know, when we,
when we look at the differences in healthcare spending between us and other
countries, uh, the drug prices actually have very little to do with them. Uh,
they're able to negotiate those, but they also get,
they also get last choice for medicine. Okay.
When you look at great Britain and Canada,
that they're not getting the premiere new drugs like we have in the United
States, um,
we get screwed as Americans because the patent laws are not enforced in these
other countries. So our pharmacy, our pharmaceutical companies, um,
they immediately get ripped off in other countries. And that that's a problem,
you know, how do we that's, that should be something.
And they get ripped off in that.
They've done the research to create these drugs and these other companies in the
other countries. So just copy these.
Drugs, make generics.
Because they have socialized medicine and their obligation is to provide
medicine to the people. So their obligations to,
they don't care about these copyrights.
They just care about getting medicine to the people. Now,
some people would argue that that is in favor of the population in favor of the
people that need.
Healthcare. I would argue it's not sustainable, though.
It might make it feel good,
but it's not going to do good in the long run because you still.
Profit. Even if they're well.
They're, they're having they're profiting because they're charging a merit.
Well, America is basically paying for this, right. Which is, which is why it's,
which is why it's important for like trade agreements to say, Hey,
you guys have to enforce the same patent laws that we have. Otherwise, this,
this is not sustainable situation because eventually you don't make a profit.
Right. Right. And that's, and that's not fair for,
so that's the new NAFTA deal was negotiated this way,
the U S MCA to addressing some of these concerns, for instance, uh, and that's,
that's the right thing to do. Like you ha you have to,
you have to align a cent incentives. When you're talking about any policy,
we have to dig a few layers. It's never as simple as Bernie Sanders says it is.
It never is. He always makes it out to be so simple. It's greed.
Everything is attributable, degrade.
Everything is attributable to the 1% they own you. They, they,
they own the lobbyists. They own all this listen.
There's elements of truth and all of that. But what my point is,
it's just not the overarching thing. There's so much more complexities to that.
And we have to have those conversations and like, we're just,
we're we're instead, what we see is just very extreme talking points.
First of all,
very extreme interpretations of the actual problem and therefore leading
to very extreme solutions to that.